Prompt: how do i navigate t othe folder where i downloaded the repo? Should I download it outside of just adding the file to my own repo in github?
Response (Code portion - won't let me copy and paste full description): git clone https://github.com/username/repo-name.git
cd Documents/GitHub   # or wherever you keep projects
git clone https://github.com/username/repo-name.git
cd repo-name
cd Documents/GitHub/repo-name

Prompt: add a tag to repository
Response: Make sure you’re inside your repo

Open your terminal and navigate to your repo folder:
cd path/to/repo-name
Step 2: Check your current commit

You can see your latest commits with:
git log --oneline
Lightweight tag

A simple label (no extra metadata):
git tag v1.0
☁️ Step 4: Push the tag to GitHub

By default, git push doesn’t include tags.
You must push them explicitly:
git push origin v1.0
git push origin --tags
Step 5: Verify it on GitHub

Go to your repo’s page.

Click “Releases” (right sidebar or under “Code”).

You’ll see your tag listed there — optionally, you can create a “release” linked to it with notes or files.

Prompt: The notebook as shipped by LIGO includes a companion script, readligo.py with some data reading utilities. You will move this file from being next to the notebook into a folder called ligotools and change the notebook line that reads import readligo as rl into from ligotools import readligo as rl For this, you will need the ligotools folder to work as a proper Python package.

Response: 🎯 Your goal

You want to:

Move readligo.py into a new folder called ligotools/

Make that folder a Python package

Update the notebook import so it works properly:

from ligotools import readligo as rl
1. Create the new folder

Inside your repository folder (where the notebook lives), create:

ligotools/
2. Add an __init__.py file

Inside ligotools/, create an empty file called:

__init__.py


That file tells Python:

“This folder is a package, and its contents can be imported.”
3. Update your import line in the notebook

Open your Jupyter notebook and replace this line:

import readligo as rl


with:

from ligotools import readligo as rl
4. Test that it works

Run the first few notebook cells to make sure the import works.
If you get an error like ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'ligotools', it likely means your working directory isn’t set to the repo’s root.

You can check that inside a notebook cell:

import os
os.getcwd()


If it’s not the repo’s main folder, change it:

os.chdir("path/to/repo-name")

Prompt: How do I check the version of Python that the LIGO notebook is using.
Response: 
import sys
print(sys.version) 
You’ll see something like:

3.9.13 (main, Aug 25 2022, 18:55:36)


→ Then you’ll specify python=3.9 (only the major.minor version) in your environment file.
Prompt: How do I add to this repository an environment.yml file that creates an environment named ligo, and installs the necessary dependencies to properly run this notebook on our hub.
Create your environment.yml file

Once you know the package versions, make a file called environment.yml in your repo’s root (same level as your notebook).
You can do this in a text editor, terminal, or JupyterLab’s file browser.

Example (you’ll replace version numbers with what you found):

name: ligo
channels:
  - conda-forge
  - defaults

dependencies:
  - python=3.9
  - numpy=1.20
  - scipy=1.7
  - matplotlib=3.4
  - h5py=3.1
  - decorator=4.4
  - ipykernel


📝 Notes:

Don’t use the third version digit (e.g., write numpy=1.20, not numpy=1.20.3).

decorator must match the Binder version (e.g., 4.4, not the newer 5.x that breaks old notebooks).

ipykernel lets you run Jupyter notebooks in this environment.

Step 4: Build the environment locally

In your terminal:

mamba env create -f environment.yml


(or conda env create -f environment.yml if you don’t have mamba)

Activate it:

conda activate ligo


Check versions:

python --version
conda list | grep numpy

Step 5: Add the environment’s kernel to Jupyter

While in your activated ligo environment, run:

python -m ipykernel install --user --name=ligo --display-name "Python (ligo)"


That adds a selectable kernel in Jupyter called Python (ligo).

Now when you open the notebook, you can go to:

Kernel → Change Kernel → Python (ligo)
Step 6: Test it on the Stat159 DataHub

Upload your updated repo (with environment.yml and the new folder structure).

On the DataHub, open a terminal and run:

mamba env create -f environment.yml
conda activate ligo
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=ligo --display-name "Python (ligo)"


Open your notebook and select that kernel.

Run all cells — everything should execute cleanly. 